Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds.
This is episode 482,
recorded Monday,
June 1st.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
This episode is brought to you by us and all of the Python things that we're doing.
Check out pythontest.com, get Brian's multiple courses over there,
even something to do with
Lean TDD,
if you want to check that out.
I hear that an audio book is underway,
which is super cool.
and got a couple new courses over at Talk Python,
especially the new OWASP top 10 security plus agentic AI.
Like how do you take Claude Code or something like that?
Plus known recognized patterns like the OWASP top 10
and make your code safe.
That's what that course is about.
So check out those kinds of things.
That's what we're bringing you this week.
Also,
if you want to connect with us on socials,
share,
show ideas,
whatever you can do.
So on all the socials,
sign up for the newsletter.
We got awesome extras that come in through there.
So just do that on the website.
With that,
Brian,
I think it might be time.
Should we kick it off?
Speaking of security.
We have a security issue,
but the issue I think is resolved.
We just, I'm highlighting an article that's about the maintainer.
So this is interesting.
So this is the CVE,
I'm not going to, let's see.
CVE 2026,
48710, a maintainer's perspective.
So this is from Marcelo Trilasinski.
Cool name.
Anyway, this is about a security advisory from Starlet.
So even,
so there's a, what,
isn't FastAPI used Starlet, I think?
I do believe so,
yeah.
And a bunch of other stuff too.
So even if you don't think that you're using Starlet, you might be using Starlet.
So the short version is you probably ought to upgrade to 1.0.1 if you haven't already.
um the that's one of the versions if if you don't care about the like the nitty-gritty of this just
do that the other part is an interesting thing about basically that this is an interesting article
it's kind of hard to cover but i wanted to bring it up because it does uh we do have more and more
ai things like attack both both trying to attack websites and also so we have to keep up on security
updates,
but also a lot of these security vulnerability reports against projects.
And
a lot of these projects like Starlette are not,
they're not a commercial enterprise.
It's an
open source project with volunteer maintainers.
So that's really what we're talking about here
is a little bit of that. And also the problem really wasn't with Starlet. And apparently
they got some bad press in a couple of places because of a vulnerability.
But this,
I'm going
read this interesting interesting thing the vulnerability came came from a pattern an
application pattern and the deployment never from something starlet intended and um there's a
description in the in the link about what the issue is and it i actually got lost um so it's
something about like yeah i'm not even going to try to summarize it because i got lost here um
But there's one description of the bug.
It says from Ostif, I don't know what Ostif is,
but an Ostif article,
this bug is a classic
responsibility gap where this maintainer didn't patch,
where if this maintainer didn't patch,
then thousands of exposed projects would have to individually secure their projects.
In doing this work, they've voluntarily taken on the responsibility to protect the ecosystem
from long-term systemic harm.
As with all open source projects,
they owed us nothing
and could have left it for everyone else's problem
and took,
but they took the extraordinary steps
of helping the ecosystem.
Please consider donating to Glutex,
which is the person that wrote this article,
which is an interesting And
I believe the maintainer of Starlette as well.
Okay,
yeah,
you're right. And also,
so apparently Ars Technica even covered it.
And we've referenced the articles a lot,
you know, in the past,
sometimes some good stuff.
But apparently they reached out and said,
you know,
this seems to be serious.
Do you have any comments?
How severe is it?
And they didn't.
They sent that request out two hours before publication.
And since they didn't get a response,
they posted that.
They didn't.
They asked,
but didn't get a reply from Starlette.
And two hours?
Anyway.
The article goes on to talk about the burden of triaging,
how many security advisories come in,
all the work that's involved.
And also that places like Ars Technica and others treat open source projects as if they're a for-profit corporation and expect like a PR department and stuff.
And there's not.
It's just people.
So anyway.
Yeah.
Do you have anything else to add to this or just interesting?
Yeah, it's just interesting.
I don't know.
It doesn't look like a super dangerous vulnerability,
I don't think,
but definitely go out and patch.
And it's a 1.0.0 to 1.0.1 bump.
So it's not like you've got to jump a major version.
Yeah, definitely patch.
But also,
I think it's,
I don't know how to get out of this, but because we have a lot of these open source projects that big companies are relying on,
and they want the reaction times of a paid product.
And they just,
yeah.
And actually.
You know what?
They could do that by maybe putting the maintainer on a healthy retainer,
making the project sustainable and say,
look, we'll pay you $2,000 a month and we probably won't ask you anything for a long time.
But if we need you, we need you to jump in and we'll then pay you out earlier.
I don't know, something like that, right?
That would,
if you get five companies doing that,
I bet you can get some response time out of that.
Yeah.
But the ironic reverse thing is actual paid products are really slow to patch anything.
So we actually get usually faster response times from open source projects.
So anyway.
Indeed,
indeed.
All right, let's go and chat a bit about the Daily Stars Explorer.
This is a fun project,
Brian.
So what this is, this is a web app that's open source on GitHub.
What is it built with?
Scrolling.
It's built with JavaScript and Go.
So,
but it doesn't matter because it's not about the internals.
It's about the information you get about different projects,
including Python ones.
So it's an app that you can put in a repository,
and it will give you just basically historical information about the stars sliced and diced in all these statistical ways.
Ooh,
neat.
So it has full star history,
hourly stars.
You can compare side-by-side repos,
activity timelines of like show me the commits over time,
which is kind of interesting.
You can favorite them and so on.
You can see when the repos were mentioned on Hacker News,
Reddit,
YouTube,
and GitHub,
and you download the data for feeding to your AI or feeding to your data science stack.
So I think this is pretty cool.
And let's just do this by,
let me first find the Flask repo.
One second.
All right, so let's go and open up the little demo.
So it's a web app, which means you have to self-host it.
However,
if you just want to try it out, I think just use the demo and put whatever you want in there.
Unless you want to save your history and stuff.
But let's go over and put Flask in.
And it thinks for a moment.
The first time you get one in there, I put a repo in there.
It takes a minute to download all the data from GitHub.
But because I put that in there before,
it kind of goes more quickly.
So you can see right now Flask has 71,598 stars.
And you can have different themes,
of course, for the thing.
It shows you the total stars over time.
So you've got this graph,
this orange line, if you pull it up,
is the integral or something like that.
And here's the stars per day,
like 13,
15,
whatever.
And then the scales are different.
One goes up to 80,000, another goes to 30.
But you take the integral of the top curve, you get the bottom curve.
Sum up all the stars.
It's very cool.
You can break it down by over five years,
quarterly,
years a day.
you can go and say, I want to transform this by, I want to just look at trend lines,
or I want to look at monthly bend stars,
or maybe I want to normalize the stars across
and have like a little,
you know,
lines.
What else?
We've got the running median and week over week growth.
Neat, right?
Shows you how old the repository is.
16 years, one month,
26 days,
68 stars the last day.
So I don't know.
A lot of times you maybe want to think about what project do I actually want to work on or base my project upon?
And obviously stars are not everything,
but it's certainly something.
Could we pull up here? Come on now, get away.
You're right about this auto-hide stuff,
right?
So where can I find?
Yeah, I don't know where to pull up the commits from this one right off the top of my head.
But anyway, it'd be cool to see the commits because that would let you answer some interesting questions as well,
right?
Like if you see the commits just come to a stop two years ago, you're like,
oh,
I see.
So where's the work happening?
Like where is it?
Is it getting this data from in the browser or where's,
when's the?
There's a,
there's a Go based web app running on someone's server that these,
you know,
that they've got up here that I believe.
And then it just,
it happens over there.
If I pulled up a different one, you would see it grind away for maybe 10, 15 seconds.
Well, that's a lot of data and a lot of graphs.
I'm just,
the pickiness in me, I'm like, well, what graph doesn't it have?
I don't see any candlestick bar graphs.
Sorry.
Yeah, I know.
It's pretty neat, though,
if you want to explore some repos.
It's cool.
I haven't seen people include YouTube references before and something like that.
Oh, yeah, and there's all this side stuff over here.
You can compare.
Here's the commits.
So give it a moment.
See, now it's grinding because I didn't ask for the commits on Flask earlier today.
You can see PRs, issues,
forks.
Like, that's pretty neat.
It's kind of hidden in this little hamburger menu on the left,
but if you expand it out.
Yeah.
But it'll probably take,
this should be interesting, I think.
I've got some ideas.
But I don't know, it'll take maybe 30 seconds.
There you go.
So year over, or all time, you can see there's quite a few commits
and trending downward.
It's kind of a, honestly,
kind of a done product,
you know.
I don't mean that in a positive or negative way.
There's a few things left that I think Flask could do.
Primarily,
I think one of the,
there's probably two things to work on.
I think primarily you could work on maybe some performance stuff to make Flask better.
And you could unify the true async court and the sort of pseudo async, regular Flask async functionality.
I know David and Phillip are like working towards making those just one thing.
But you know, that could be a lot of work right there.
That could be happening.
But other than that, I kind of feel like Flask is sort of done.
Yeah.
Anyway,
this is not about Flask.
It's Flask as an example.
It's about the Daily Stars Explorer, which I think is pretty cool.
Just a link to us from last week.
No project's ever done because you have to test on new Python versions every year.
Yeah.
And if it completely gets read as done, then it starts to get really badly.
Because it's dust and stuff.
All right.
Exactly.
It gets read as if it were dead.
How about something to markdown?
Maybe document it?
Write a book about it?
Yeah.
So I like a lot of markdown.
I use it a lot of all the time.
I'm actually writing,
I wrote the Python testing with pytest in Markdown.
I'm writing LeanTDD in Markdown.
Use it for blog posts.
Use it for everything.
So what's new about this?
What's new is I just learned about a tool called Types.
I think it's type.
It even says how to pronounce it, and I didn't look.
So T-Y-P-S-T.
So I needed a new formatting thing because I'm trying to self-publish LeanTDD,
and I didn't like the book,
the print book versions of output that I have available.
So I wanted to customize that.
So I reached out to all of our good friend,
Matt Harrison,
because he self-published and
said, Matt, what do you use?
And he's using types now.
So I tried to check it out.
So the gist is that Pandoc converts to PDF,
but it does it through LaTeX.
And I don't really like LaTeX.
And you have to download something extra anyway to get Pandoc to convert it.
So,
and then,
but there's types.
It's actually quite a pain.
It's not just a, it's like three or four libraries.
They're all,
I don't know.
They're just, it's weird.
It's not great.
Okay.
So I'll jump to the punchline is I've got a convert script now that does,
converts
Pandoc to type,
TYP.
And I don't know what the official extension is, but I just named it.
So you say two types in for Pandoc, but it's a fairly recent Pandoc that,
There's been updates recently,
so you'll want to upgrade your Pandoc first,
then convert your markdown,
and then take the type TYP output,
and you do types to compile,
and then the output.
And I did a little example,
so it's just a normal markdown, and it just converts it to some nice PDF.
So there's a whole bunch of cool...
Oh, and it has syntax highlighting as well?
Oh,
yeah.
It does syntax highlighting,
and there's so much that it does.
It has mathematical symbols.
It is a replacement for LaTeX,
for one, but it's very much simpler.
And I,
in like an hour of twiddling with it, I have a fairly decent book template for the new book.
And yeah, so I'm pretty happy with it.
And this has been around for a while, and I just didn't know about it.
So that's why I'm bringing it up.
And installing wise,
just brew.
For a Mac, brew.
On Windows,
there was some other process I did,
but it's so much easier than the LaTeX chain to install.
So I'm pretty happy with this tool.
So thanks.
So I was so happy with it.
I did a little blog post to share with people.
Excellent.
That is really interesting.
I might start using that because right now I'm doing just straight markdown
to Pandoc for Talk Python in production.
And it's really good for EPUB,
but it's kind of janky for PDF
and it's kind of janky for Kindle
because Kindle can't read it quite right.
So I have to do like remove
a few little niceties for Kindle.
So anyway,
certainly worth considering.
Really?
Thanks,
yeah.
Oh,
I'm not having,
I guess I haven't tried.
I'll have to try the Kindle version.
The problem that I run into with Kindle
is somehow the way that Pandoc
is doing code syntax highlighting breaks the display on Kindle
because,
I don't know, there's something about new lines or spans
or something that get treated differently,
and then the spacing gets really weird.
It's annoying.
Okay.
I will definitely...
Give it a look and see what it looks like.
I'll have to try that.
And,
yeah,
so I'll try that probably today.
Yeah.
I mean, the books are identical for me
other than the Kindle ones don't have syntax highlighting,
which is generally okay because most Kindles are black and white,
but I know some are not.
Oh,
okay.
So on black and white,
Kindle, it looks okay?
If I compile a separate version,
a separate Kindle EPUB that disables syntax highlighting in Pandoc, yes.
Oh,
okay.
Yeah.
I'll have to look at that.
So that was the fix.
I'm just like, all right, well,
dash, dash,
no, whatever the syntax is.
I don't know.
It's been a while since I wrote the alias that just does it, you know?
Okay.
Yeah, I'll take a look.
Hmm.
All right.
Well,
this one, Brian, this should be yours.
This should be yours, but no, I got it.
This one is mine.
So I want to talk about Postman to pytest.
Okay.
This is a cool project.
It comes to us from Mikhail,
and people might be familiar with the Postman app.
I'm a big fan of the Postman app.
It's pretty neat.
Do you use it?
Do you know it?
Yeah.
Yeah, so the way it works is you create these collections
that are like groups of different API calls
that in aggregate demonstrate or test some kind of API,
right?
You can organize them into folders,
but also you can do collections and then share these collections with teammates
and team collections.
I did that notably for the Talk Python Horses app that's in the Mac,
not the Mac, the app,
the iOS and the Google Play Store.
So I need all the APIs that I'm creating for this to be tested,
documented, clear.
You can do stuff that should pass,
stuff that should fail, and so on.
So if your team uses Postman,
then this project here you might like
It converts Postman collections,
which I just described, into executable Python test suite,
a pytest test suite.
Nice.
Yeah.
And it's super simple.
So all you do is you just say,
you know, you install it, probably uv if it says pip install, but come on now.
uv tool install.
Let's go.
So it says Postman to pytest --collection.
Give it some collection.
And then you say output this Python test file.
And that's it.
And then run Python.
not right, run pytest to run it.
So that's pretty neat.
That will actually set the environment
so that things like the base URL,
which can vary depending on configs
like dev versus prod or whatever,
and then it just runs it through pytest.
And what's cool is you could version this test file
and then just rerun this to regenerate it when it's time.
Yeah.
Also, if you did that, if you versioned it,
then you could rerun it and do the diffs
to see what changed in your collections.
yeah that's right yeah you could regenerate it and just go oh i see we've got this or this
api actually changed because now it takes this additional header and that's why the test was
failing i don't know something like that so if i mean this is a big if if you use postman but
i think this is a really handy and it's just like hey i've got this stuff locked into this app
and it can run things it can do test type things but really you probably want it in py test land
and this uh cool little app and this cool little utility does it so good work miko yeah one of the
things that he mentioned to us when he shared this project was, which I thought was interesting,
is the division of a whole bunch of developers and then that use Postman during development,
which is common,
right? I think.
And then a smaller quality assurance team or part-time
person, I think it was him,
that needs to support some of this stuff.
And so you've got the same
source.
You've got the developers developing what they think is the right thing.
And to be able to
take that and convert it to something that a smaller test team can maintain.
And that's a
cool model to do that with. So one source of truth.
Nice.
Yeah, it's almost like treating like a
database,
right?
Yeah.
Do you have extras?
I have one extra for today.
And my extra is that
I snuck this in for the last blog post that I shared was actually on testandcode.org.
So I am writing,
I'm going to start writing there, I think a little bit.
So I'm linking to
new blog, who dis?
There is not much there yet since I just put it online,
but I'll link to the
other stuff uh one of the funny things that happened to me last night was i went to uh publish
this at testandcode.com and i had let it expire because the old podcast was dead so um so what
happened i just uh i'm like uh well somebody else grabbed it some squatter sitting on it now so i
just uh registered.org that works um and i and i the important thing i could just keep blogging on
Python test, but I do want to,
I want to use this testing code name as the publisher for Lean TDD.
So it's self-published through me,
but it's kind of, I don't know,
it's not fake. It just looks
kind of fun to have a different publisher than my name or Amazon or something like that. So
that's what I want to do.
Anyway, that's my extra.
How about something funny?
I think it's time for something funny.
Indeed.
Let's jump over.
So this joke is called centering
a div and it's it's based on mr beast you know you do do you know mr beast no but yes yes i know
it's it's certainly not a thing that i would watch on youtube however sure no i would watch animal
fails come on uh it's i really don't watch mr beast it's kind of annoying to me it's but what
a phenomenon right so for people who don't know done by this guy jimmy donald james jimmy john
Donaldson and his net worth from his YouTube projects and beyond,
you know,
it's $2.6 billion.
It's ridiculous.
So it basically,
it follows a theme, like we're going to put you in some crazy
situation and throughout the situation.
And at the end,
whoever kind of completes it gets some
ridiculous amount of money. Like, Hey,
we're all going to hang onto a car,
like a Tesla and whoever
hangs onto it long enough gets a Tesla.
Oh, by the way, the person who doesn't go to the bathroom,
The longest gets an extra $100,000.
You know, like ridiculous stuff like that, right?
So,
queued up.
Here's the joke.
Centering a div.
Mr.
Beast plans to trap a thousand vibe coders in a room without Claude.
First person to center a div manually wins $1 million.
It's not fair.
Nobody will get it.
I know, exactly.
It's like, it's impossible.
Can't be done.
And then down here, one of them is center horizontally,
vertically or both like oh oh oh vertically it's just impossible now i don't even know if it's hard
anymore actually it just it used to be hard but i don't know if it is i think it depends how you
write it like if you did a flex box you know but if you did old school way it's a little harder yeah
that's sort of funny to think about though because the uh the did the vibe i don't vibe code but i
i also don't write css by hand anymore uh i use use something else to do it for me so anyway
ah funny um one of the things i actually was at a dinner party the other day and um uh somebody
said they wanted to start they take a lot of videos and i said oh cool can i watch them somewhere
and he's like well um i was gonna i said you should like throw them up on instagram or something
uh whatever and he's like well i'm gonna start doing on youtube because you know that mr beast
makes like millions of dollars and one of the things i i mean the i don't watch these videos
and maybe they're funny maybe they're not i don't know it's not my thing but one of the things that's
unfortunate is it kind of an it makes some people believe that they can do that also and i don't i
think this is a one-off random thing i think it's it's just you know it was at the right time right
place it was its own thing yeah and how much did he make for the first three years he was doing it i
I don't know.
I don't even mind it lost money.
I'm not sure.
He would just go up to random people, give him $1,000 for stuff.
I don't know where he got the $1,000 to start this idea with.
Is that how it started at the beginning?
It was always like this?
I think so.
You know, the beginning,
I don't know.
But for a long time,
it's been like that.
But it used to be lower scale,
and it goes up.
Because my daughter watched him a lot for a while.
Not so much anymore,
but for a while.
And so it would kind of be on in the background,
while I'm on the couch or whatever, you know?
Weird.
Okay,
whatever.
Yeah.
But this is his new amazing one.
Trap a thousand vibe coders in a room without Claude.
Ask them to do things.
Let's go.
Yeah,
that's funny.
It is.
All right.
Thanks for the show, Brian.
Thanks for everyone for listening.
All right,
bye.
Bye.